(DOCSP-18745) Node CSFLE fundementals (#277)
mongodb/docs-node: source/fundamentals/csfle.txt

Add it to your project using ``npm``:

.. code-block:: sh
   :copyable: true

   npm install mongodb-client-encryption --save

``uuid-base64``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``uuid-base64`` module converts between Base64 and hexadecimal 
UUIDs.

Add it to your project using ``npm``:

.. code-block:: sh
   :copyable: true

   npm install uuid-base64 --save

``mongocryptd``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``mongocryptd`` is a binary run as a daemon / process that is used for 
automatic encryption. ``mongodb-crypt`` communicates with 
``mongodb-client-encryption`` to automatically encrypt the information 
specified by a user-provided 
:manual:`JSON Schema </reference/security-client-side-automatic-json-schema/>`.

For more detailed information on ``mongocryptd``, see the
:manual:`mongocryptd reference documentation </reference/security-client-side-encryption-appendix/#mongocryptd>`

Example
-------

The following example shows how to configure a CSFLE-enabled client 
with a local key and a JSON schema. Values in fields specified by your 
JSON schema are automatically encrypted before insertion, and decrypted 
when calling ``find()`` with a CSFLE-enabled client.

> Considerations

Reviewer: This heading obfuscates the example itself in the on this page widget.

Author: Replacing considerations with notes, similar to the Java page

         local: {
           key: await fs.readFile("./master-key.txt"),
         },
       },
     });
     
     let dataKey = await encryption.createDataKey("local", {
       masterKey: null,
     });
     
     return dataKey.toString("base64");
   }
   
   async function run(regularClient, csfleClient) {
     try {
   
       regularClient = await getRegularClient();
   
       let dataKey = await makeDataKey(regularClient);
       console.log(
         "New dataKey created for this run:\n",
         dataKey
       );
   
       const schemaMap = createJsonSchemaMap(dataKey);
       
       csfleClient = await getCsfleEnabledClient(schemaMap);
   
       const regularClientSsnsColl = regularClient
         .db("users")
         .collection("ssns");
       const csfleClientSsnsColl = csfleClient
         .db("users")
         .collection("ssns");
   
       const exampleDocument = {
         name: "Jon Doe",
         ssn: 241014209,
       };
   
       await csfleClientSsnsColl.updateOne(
         { ssn: exampleDocument.ssn },
         { $set: exampleDocument },
         { upsert: true }
       );
   
       const csfleFindResult = await csfleClientSsnsColl.findOne({

>          ssn: exampleDocument["ssn"],

Author: Thanks for reviewing!

parties, including server administrators, cannot read the encrypted 
data.

This guide is a quick introduction to CSFLE using the Node.js driver. 
For in-depth information on how CSFLE works, see
the :manual:`CSFLE reference </core/security-client-side-encryption/>` 
documentation. For a real-world scenario and implementation, see our 
`CSFLE Guide <https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-guide>`_.

Installation
------------

To get started with CSFLE in your client application, you need:

- the MongoDB Node.js driver
- `mongodb-client-encryption <https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb-client-encryption>`__
- ``mongocryptd`` if using automatic encryption (Enterprise or Atlas)

``mongodb-client-encryption``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``mongodb-client-encryption`` module is the official client 
encryption module for the MongoDB Node.js driver. It contains bindings 
to communicate with the native library that manages the encryption.

Add it to your project using ``npm``:

.. code-block:: sh
   :copyable: true

   npm install mongodb-client-encryption --save

``mongocryptd``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> ``mongocryptd`` is a binary run as a daemon / process that is used for 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``mongocryptd`` is launched automatically by the package, and it is used for 
```

Just clearing a bit of circular language here, a daemon is a type of process the slash doesn't make sense to me here.

Author: Sounds good, appreciate the clarification

> automatic encryption. ``mongodb-crypt`` communicates with 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatic encryption. ``mongocryptd`` communicates with 
```
I think this is what was intended?

-------

The following example shows how to configure a CSFLE-enabled client 
with a local key and a JSON schema. Values in the ``ssn`` field are 
automatically encrypted before insertion, and decrypted when calling 
``find()`` with a CSFLE-enabled client.

.. warning::

   MongoDB recommends using local key management only for testing 
   purposes, and using a remote key management service
   for production.

An expanded example with support for remote key management services is 
available at MongoDB University's GitHub 
`Node CSFLE Example <https://github.com/mongodb-university/csfle-guides/tree/master/nodejs>`__.

.. note::
   
   Auto encryption requires MongoDB **Enterprise** or **Atlas**.

To run this example, first complete the following steps:

- Save `master-key.txt <https://github.com/mongodb-university/csfle-guides/raw/master/nodejs/master-key.txt>`__
  to the same directory as this example code.
- Start a ``mongod`` locally on the default port 27017.
- Start a ``mongocryptd`` locally on the default port 27020.

.. code-block:: javascript
  
   const { MongoClient, Binary } = require("mongodb");
   const { ClientEncryption } = require("mongodb-client-encryption");

>    const fs = require("fs");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   const fs = require("fs/promises");
```
Blocking the event loop isn't best practice, since we're using async/await everywhere here we can update this.

   
   async function getRegularClient() {

>      const client = new MongoClient("mongodb://localhost:27017", { 
>        useNewUrlParser: true,
>        useUnifiedTopology: true,
>      });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     const client = new MongoClient("mongodb://localhost:27017");
```

No longer need these options in v4.x of the driver

     return await client.connect();
   }
   
   async function getCsfleEnabledClient(schemaMap) {

>      const client = new MongoClient("mongodb://localhost:27017", {
>        useNewUrlParser: true,
>        useUnifiedTopology: true,
>        autoEncryption: {
>          keyVaultNamespace: "encryption.__keyVault",
>          kmsProviders: {
>            local: {
>              key: fs.readFileSync("./master-key.txt"),
>            },
>          },
>          schemaMap,
>        },
>      });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     const client = new MongoClient("mongodb://localhost:27017", {
       autoEncryption: {
         keyVaultNamespace: "encryption.__keyVault",
         kmsProviders: {
           local: {
             key: await fs.readFile("./master-key.txt"),
           },
         },
         schemaMap,
       },
     });
```

     return await client.connect();
   }
   
   function createJsonSchemaMap(dataKey) {
     return {
       "users.ssns": {
         bsonType: "object",
         encryptMetadata: {
           keyId: [new Binary(Buffer.from(dataKey, "base64"), 4)],
         },
         properties: {
           ssn: {
             encrypt: {
               bsonType: "int",
               algorithm: "AEAD_AES_256_CBC_HMAC_SHA_512-Deterministic",
             },

>            },

Reviewer 2: Total suggestion here:
We can leave this as is, it doesn't change the usefulness of the example at all, but to my knowledge its common practice to store something like a social security number as a string, it doesn't have as much useful meaning as an int. For example, it has a certain length that is required, and you often want to check the last four digits. Neither of those operations are particularly easy with an Int but are with a string.

Author: Got it, that makes a lot of sense. Still, I'm planning to leave this as-is to match the University example as closely as possible.

         },
       },
     };
   }
   
   async function makeDataKey(client) {
     const encryption = new ClientEncryption(client, {
       keyVaultNamespace: "encryption.__keyVault",
       kmsProviders: {
         local: {

>            key: fs.readFileSync("./master-key.txt"),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           key: await fs.readFile("./master-key.txt"),
```

         },
       },
     });
     
     let dataKey = await encryption.createDataKey("local", {
       masterKey: null,
     });
     
     return dataKey.toString("base64");
   }
   
   async function run(regularClient, csfleClient) {
     try {
   
       regularClient = await getRegularClient();
   
       let dataKey = await makeDataKey(regularClient);
       console.log(
         "New dataKey created for this run:\n",
         dataKey
       );
   
       const schemaMap = createJsonSchemaMap(dataKey);
       
       csfleClient = await getCsfleEnabledClient(schemaMap);
   
       const regularClientSsnsColl = regularClient
         .db("users")
         .collection("ssns");
       const csfleClientSsnsColl = csfleClient
         .db("users")
         .collection("ssns");
   
       const exampleDocument = {
         name: "Jon Doe",
         ssn: 241014209,
       };
   
       await csfleClientSsnsColl.updateOne(

>          { ssn: exampleDocument["ssn"] },

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         { ssn: exampleDocument.ssn },
```

You might want to run this code through some kind of [formatter](https://prettier.io/playground/) for consistency, accessing an object with a string index is unusual when everything else uses just dot `.` access.

Author: Good point, thanks

         { $set: exampleDocument },
         { upsert: true }
       );
   
       const csfleFindResult = await csfleClientSsnsColl.findOne({
         ssn: exampleDocument["ssn"],
       });
       console.log(
         "Document retrieved with csfle enabled client:\n",
         csfleFindResult
       );
   
       const regularFindResult = await regularClientSsnsColl.findOne({
         name: "Jon Doe",
       });
       console.log(
         "Document retrieved with regular client:\n", 
         regularFindResult
       );
   
     } finally {
       if (regularClient) await regularClient.close();
       if (csfleClient) await csfleClient.close();
     }
   }
   

>    let regularClient = null;
>    let csfleClient = null;
>    run(regularClient, csfleClient).catch(console.dir);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
run().catch(error => {
   console.dir(error);
   process.exit(1);
});
```
These are in the top level of the file right? the indentation looked off. Also the variables here are just null when passed in, I'm not sure I see the use of keeping them?

Author: They are, but the whole example is in a code block - I think the indentation is correct.

I think you're right about the null variables - I had thought I needed them in the global scope for some reason. Took your suggestion!

parties, including server administrators, cannot read the encrypted 
data.

This guide is a quick introduction to CSFLE using the Node.js driver. 
For in-depth information on how CSFLE works, see
the :manual:`CSFLE reference </core/security-client-side-encryption/>` 
documentation. For a real-world scenario and implementation, see our 
`CSFLE Guide <https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-guide>`_.

Installation
------------

To get started with CSFLE in your client application, you need

- the MongoDB Node.js driver
- `mongodb-client-encryption <https://www.npmjs.com/package/mongodb-client-encryption>`__
- `uuid-base64 <https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid-base64#installation>`__
- ``mongocryptd`` if using automatic encryption (Enterprise or Atlas)

``mongodb-client-encryption``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``mongodb-client-encryption`` module is the official client 
encryption module for the MongoDB Node.js driver. It contains bindings 
to communicate with the native library that manages the encryption.

Add it to your project using ``npm``:

.. code-block:: sh
   :copyable: true

>    npm install mongodb-client-encryption

Reviewer: I know newer versions of npm automatically save, but let's be explicit should people be using older versions. Same throughout the other `npm` steps.

```suggestion
   npm install mongodb-client-encryption --save
```

Author: Good call, added to both `npm install` blocks

Author: I'll work on equivalent examples to add
